chore: add complete article on how to use directus studio to create a… (#106)
directus-labs/guest-authoring: directus-studio/index.md

description: "Learn how to build a customer support ticket form with Directus Studio, enhancing service efficiency and user experience in an easy steps."
author:
  name: "Ayodele Aransiola"
  avatar_file_name: "ayodele.png"
---

## Introduction

Building a user-friendly and useable product is important, but an effective customer feedback and support is pivotal for business success. [Directus](https://directus.io), an open-source flexible platform that offers solutions such as the Headless CMS, Backend-as-a-service more amazing features that can be tailored to various needs, including creating a dynamic support ticket form for your product. This article will guide you through using Directus Studio to build a support ticket form that allows customers to submit their queries or issues on your product offerings.

## Before You Start

**:cloud: Instance**
Imagine a scenario where your business receives numerous customer inquiries daily. Managing these inquiries efficiently becomes importantant. In this article, you will learn how [Directus](https://directus.io) can be helpful in building a seamless support ticket handling system for your business.

> <!-- ## Your Sections Here -->

Reviewer: Remove this - the intro takes care of context-setting

> - Ensure that you have setup a Directus account either on the [Directus Cloud](https://directus.cloud/) or on your local development environment using [docker](https://docs.directus.io/getting-started/quickstart.html). Watch this youtube [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZOCfBBTMtoE) for a step-by-step guide in setting up Directus locally on your computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need; 

- A Directus project. Follow the [Quickstart guide](https://docs.directus.io/getting-started/quickstart) to create one.
```

- Log into your Directus account, you'll create a specific collection for your support ticket, agent, and message. This collections will include the form for `Customer` to drop a ticket, the support collection will be for the `Support Agent` assigned to each ticket, while the message collection is for communication on the ticket. Below is the structure of the schema for each collections:

	1. Support Ticket: Ticket_Id, Name, Email, Issue Type (options: Billing, Technical Issue, General Inquiry), Description, status (Open, In Progress, Resolved), asigned_to, and Submission Date.
	2. Agents: agent_id (uuid), assigned (relationship: manyToOne, related collection: directus user)
   3. Ticket Message: message_id, date_created, ticket_message, relationship (relationship: ManyToOne, related collection: support_tickets `ticket_id`)

- Configuring roles for the support agents and the customers:
	-  `Customers` can create tickets and view the status of their own tickets, as well as add message to the ticket.

	-  `Support Agents` has access to view assigned tickets, update statuses, add message for the customer.

> Setting up these roles and permissions ensures that customers have a straightforward way to submit and track their inquiries while giving support agents the tools needed to manage and resolve tickets efficiently.

Reviewer: It seems you break this down step by step below. As a result, I would delete the lightweight overview here. Perhaps replace it with a super high-level overview that just explains that there are three concepts: support tickets, agents assigned to tickets, and ticket messages.

> ## Designing the Agent Schema
> The support agent schema is useful for managing a dedicated support team: below are the few fields to include in the `agent` schema:
> 
> 1. Create a New Collection: Name it `agents`. This collection is where all your agents will be added. Rename the `id` to `agent-id` which will be your primary key and change the type to `uuid`.
> 2. Create a new field, `assigned` the field type will be `many-to-one`. The related collection will be `directus_users`. This will allow you to select your agents and add them to this collection.
> 3. Configure the access to this collection to be visible to only admin. Save your chnages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create the Agent Collection

The support agent collection is useful for managing a dedicated support team. Create an `agents` collection and add the following fields:

- `agent-id`, primary key, type: UID.
- `assigned` many-to-one to `directus_users`

This collection does not require any specific access control settings as only project admins should be able to create agents.
```

Reviewer: Please match this format on the other sections, too

> Test this setting with a test account before going live.

:::
```

## Inviting Customers to Use the Form

To allow customers to submit tickets, you must add them to Directus and assign them the `Customer`/`User` role based on what the configuration is:

1. Add Users in Directus Studio: Go to the Users section and invite customers via email.
   ![Invite user to your directus platform](user-directory.png)
2. **Assign Roles:** Ensure each customer user is assigned the `Customer` role to access and submit the support ticket form.

## Basic System Walkthrough

### Customer
1. The customer logs into the Directus platform and navigates to the support ticket form.
2. They fill out the form with their details and issue description and submit the ticket.
3. The customer can then go to their ticket overview page to see the status of their ticket and any messages from support agents.

### Support Agents
1. The support agent views a dashboard of all tickets, filtered by their current status.
2. Upon selecting a ticket, the agent can see all details provided by the customer and start a conversation through the messaging system within the ticket.

> 3. As they work on resolving the ticket, the agent updates the ticket's status and, once resolved, adds a resolution summary for the customer to view.

Reviewer: Screenshots for both please, as well as admin

Reviewer: I'd also like to see the flow of adding a message, and setting up a flow to send email updates when there are new messages in a ticket.

## Summary

In this article, you have been able to create a customized support ticket system that streamlines the process of managing customer inquiries and issues for your business. This guide has outlined a specific approach to setting up such a system, emphasizing a clear communication flow and practical implementation for both customers and support agents. With Directus, you have the flexibility to tailor this system to fit your business's unique needs, enhancing your ability to provide excellent customer support.

## Next Steps

To build upon the skills learnt in this article, consider the following steps:

1. Read more on the amazing offerings of Directus on their [Documentation](https://docs.directus.io/): Explore the Directus Documentation, especially sections related to API usage, advanced permission configurations, and webhooks. This will enhance your ability to customize and extend the functionality of your support ticket system.

> 2. Sign Up for [Directus Cloud](https://directus.cloud/): If you haven't already, sign up for Directus Cloud to experience the platform's full capabilities without the need to manage your infrastructure.

Reviewer: Thank you for thinking of this, but please delete it. The summary is a good end.
